# 28-04-2026

A future cool project could be to create a custom dashboard. 
Would be nice to display the metrics, but also the the services that are up or down, which means that a starting point could be exposing the status of the services to prometheus so it can scrape them.

In order to so I guess I need to use `goroutines`, so the HTTP handler can run concurrently with the infinite loop that checks the services.

Actually no, I can just delete the loop and call http.Get() when the HTTP handler is triggered!

=======

I tried without the loop, but the responses are really slow, I'm gonna go back to have a loop to check the services outside the HTTP handler.
Also would be nice to add concurrency for the `http.Get()` calls, this would definitely benefit me in the long run. Right now, with only 4 services it would not make a difference, but in the future it would.

======

For now I'm going with the simplest approach: one extra `goroutine` for the `checkServices()` function and a single mutex, which is locked either by the background loop or by the HTTP handler.

======

This approach is still very slow, this is probably because `http.Get()` has a long hanging time. But I don't know how to solve that now. For now I could improve it by having a mutex per service, in that way the locking time will be reduced.

======

The multiple mutexes did not make it faster. I guess i have to change `http.Get()`.
Apparently I can use `http.Client` instead and set a timeout.
I also removed the log file, now messages are printed in stderr so can be reader through the Docker logs.
