# 14-04-2026

Today I want to start by separating the Grafana/Prometheus stack from **sysmetrics**** so that i could use observability for other future services as well. In this way I can also test **svcmonitor** with other services!

Since **sysmetrics** is not gonna run in the same Docker network with Grafana/Prometheus, I'm wondering if I should keep the service in a container or run it locally. I'm probably gonna start by keeping in a container and see how it goes. I also have to remember to change the configuration of Prometheus so it can scrape outside their Docker network.

I'm also wondering if I should have a docker compose file for **sysmetrics** now that is only one container. That would be probably overkill. But without I need to remember to do port forwarding manually, maybe a Makefile?

You know what, let's run it locally as a simple binary.

Learned that `host.docker.internal` is the DNS that Docker resolves to the host's IP. I need to set that as target for Prometheus scraping in its `.yaml` file. Also learned that in the `docker-compose.yaml` file, the Prometheus service needs the `extra_hosts` rule set to `"host.docker.internal:host-gateway"`, otherwise it does not work on Linux.

=====

Now that I manage to separate **sysmetrics** from the observability stack, it's time to add also Grafana's and Prometheus' urls to the services that **svcmonitor** sends requests to.

Added them and it works perfectly, I'm looping though the map and discovered that the order of the map iteration in Go is not guaranteed. I guess for a monitor is fine to not have a precise order.

=====

Now it's getting annoying to start three services manually, let's write a Makefile at root to run everything.

=====

Already learned something writing the Makefile: each line is a separate child process that returns, which means that if I `cd` into a directory, in the next line I will not be inside that directory!

Also learned that I can kill processes by name with `pkill <name>`. Definitely better than by PID.

=====

Now that I have the Makefile, the fact that **svcmonitor** prints in stdout is quite annoying, maybe I can redirect the output to a log file, but also I don't want to have an excessively long file. Maybe for now I redirect, increase the sleep time, and truncate the file everytime it restarts.

=====

Instead of stdout I print in a log file and increase the sleep time so the file doesn't get extremely long. Also replaced "fmt" with "logs" so that i can i have timestamps.

=====

The miniPC has finally arrived, which means that now I will focus on setting it up!
First thing that I did is to figure it out how to set static IPs. I want to set the server to `192.168.178.2` so I don't have everytime to look at IP address is. That was quite fun since the FritzBox UI is only in German!

=====

Now let's start thinking about the dependencies that I will need to install on the server.
I think that for now only:
- Go
- Docker
